The theme of my opening talk to you dear Gilead students, and really for all of us, is imitate Jesus' modesty.
Now, first, we ask, what is modesty?
Well, a common definition found in our publications is being aware of our own limitations, and Jesus, of course, set a perfect example in always being aware
of his own limitations. Undoubtedly, Jesus was very familiar with Jehovah's thinking on this quality, such as expressed at Micah's chapter 6 verse 8, which was written about 700 years before Jesus came to the earth, so he certainly would have been familiar with this.
But if you recall, the question is asked, what is Jehovah requiring of you, and then part of the answer to walk in modesty with your God?
And there's an exclamation point after that expression. Jehovah would not just like to see it in us, he's requiring it.
What is Jehovah requiring of you? Jesus knew it was not optional, but a requirement that we be modest in walking with our God.
Now, since Jesus is our perfect role model, let's discuss four areas in which we can imitate his modesty.
And we know that'll be helpful to you dear students, really for all of us.
Number one, Jesus was always aware that he had authority limitations. Now, you remember the account in Matthew chapter 20, when James and John tried to use their mother to get some special positions in the kingdom for them.
Remember, they had her ask her, say to Jesus, give the word that these two sons of mine may sit down one at your right hand and one at your left in your kingdom.
Remember that? But what was Jesus answer? To sit down at my right hand and my left is not mine to give.
But it belongs to those for whom it has been prepared by my father. Now, that's interesting. Jesus gave many gifts, didn't he?
He gave a lot of wine to a newly married couple at their wedding feast. He gave the gift of healing to thousands, probably. He fed thousands. He gave them food.
He gave a widow or son back after he died. But Jesus knew to give away the second and third highest positions in the kingdom was beyond the scope of his authority.
And he acknowledged that very clearly, didn't he? Well, that's a fine lesson for us, isn't it?
There are many things that are within the scope of our authority. And we can go ahead and take the initiative and do those things.
See, but there are many other things that are outside the scope of our authority. For example, you wives. You know, there are many things in the family that have to be decided by the husband, not within your authority.
You brothers know there are many decisions that are made in the congregation that can't be made by you must be made by the body of elders.
We all know that in our Bethel department, there are many things required permission from our overseer. If some of you brothers here in our class end up later serving on branch committees, then you will need to clearly learn the parameters of your authority.
See what you can handle and what really needs to be handled by the branch committee or maybe even taken to the governing body.
In areas such as the foregoing, all of us need to carefully learn what falls within our authority and what falls outside of our authority.
And if we're in doubt, it's better to check, isn't it? It's better to check if we're in doubt. We don't have the attitude. It's easier to get forgiveness than permission.
See, that's not a good attitude, is it?
Now, another aspect of Jesus having authority, limitations, open up to John chapter 12.
And here's an interesting thought that Jesus made John chapter 12.
In verse 49, he said, for I have not spoken of my own initiative, but the father who sent me has himself given me a command about what to say and what to speak.
Now, you could say, according to that, Jesus had speaking authority limitations, didn't he?
He had no authority to go beyond what his father had taught him.
He had no authority to teach others things that originate in his own mind and a heart.
He wouldn't go beyond that. He had authority limitations. Well, even more so in that, shouldn't that be true of us?
We have no authority to give our opinions on matters, but we have to make sure when we speak that what we say is solidly based on the scriptures and what's been provided by the faithful slave.
But now, let's go to our second area. We can learn modesty from Jesus.
He always remembered his lesser importance compared to Jehovah's much greater importance.
How unlike Satan the devil, you could say he has not one modest bone in his spirit body, figuratively speaking, of course.
But no modesty in Satan the devil say, but Jesus refused to accept titles that belong to Jehovah. Why do you call me good?
Nobody is good except one God. He always gave the credit, the glory to Jehovah.
He said the son cannot do a single thing of his own initiative. But only what he sees the father doing. He never boasted.
He was always willing to put Jehovah's will ahead of his own will. He made the comment, father, if it is not possible for this to pass away unless I drink it, let your will take place.
And think about this. He had never tried to draw attention to himself by means of high sounding vocabulary or even by means of his dress and grooming.
See if he would have had some unusual dress or grooming, would you just have needed to kiss him to identify which one he was?
He could have said the one you're looking for is the only one in the group wearing a bright purple robe.
Or the only one in the group has a halibar mustache. See, he wouldn't have to kiss to identify.
And if you look at the pictures in our publications with Jesus in the 12th, it would be hard to describe which one he was.
He modestly blended in with all of the others. See, now what a fine example for us.
When others try to praise us, including our Bible students, we should modestly redirect that praise to where it belongs.
We should always give credit to Jehovah for what we accomplish. I mean, we accomplish it, but give Jehovah the credit.
See, first Corinthians 4.7, what do you have that you did not receive?
If, in fact, you did receive it, why do you boast? There's, oh, you did not receive it.
And in the same harmony or same vein with that scripture, we try hard not to boast.
Remembering Proverbs 27 to let someone else praise you and not your own mouth.
We do our best to put Jehovah's preferences ahead of our own preferences.
We endeavor not to draw attention to ourselves by high sounding vocabulary or even immodest dress and grooming.
But let's go to a third area we can learn modesty from Jesus.
He knew there are some things he was not entitled to know, at least not at the time.
Open up to Matthew 24, please.
Now we're familiar with this scripture, but Matthew 2436 noticed Jesus' words concerning that day and hour.
Nobody knows neither the angels of the heavens nor the Son, but only the Father.
Now think about it. If Jesus was content with having knowledge limitations concerning confidential things,
then even more so. Shouldn't that be the case with us?
See, we should strive very hard not to ever try to get to know confidential things. We're not entitled to know.
And we certainly shouldn't reveal confidential things.
And what a protection it is I was thinking for you dear wives of elders.
If someone asked you about a certain confidential matter, do you know anything about this?
Now if you know what you shouldn't, it's very awkward, isn't it?
You either got to be untruthful or you got to reveal that your husband didn't keep confidentiality.
But if you don't know, that should be the case.
Now with a clear conscience, you can answer that question with a resounding no.
No, I do not know anything about that.
You dear elders would not try to obtain confidential information in the congregation or at Bethel,
you're not entitled to know. Like Jesus, all of us should be content to wait for information to be revealed to us at the proper time.
And if you think about it in some cases, it may mean that we will have to be content to never know certain things.
Now let's get to our last area, this fourth area we can learn modesty from Jesus.
And that is, he was always aware of his need to fully rely on Jehovah.
Even though he was perfect, he did not rely on his own strength.
Open please to Hebrews chapter 5.
This is a beautiful scripture about this perfect son of God.
What is said about him, Hebrews chapter 5 verse 7.
During his life on earth, Christ offered up supplications and also petitions.
And notice with strong out Christ and tears to the one who was able to save him out of death.
And he was favorably heard for his godly fear.
And that interesting, during his life on earth, it didn't say just a few times, one or two times, during his life.
He petitioned in his plural and he gave supplications again, plural.
And what were the intensities of those supplications and petitions with strong out Christ and tears, he called for help.
And Jehovah heard him say, if you think of the word outcry, that means a cry out loud, isn't it?
A strong outcry, very loud to cry out loud.
And then you add tears to that, it really indicates the intensity, how he really called on Jehovah to help him.
That's an interesting thought, isn't it?
Additionally, when Jehovah sent Jesus, younger angelic brothers to come and help him in times of need, he didn't say, well, I don't need help.
Privately, I'm okay.
I've got this.
No, he knew he needed help and he graciously accepted that and appreciated that help.
Think about this, even with Jehovah's help, he was modestly realistic of what he expected of himself.
You ever thought about that?
With Jehovah's help, he still modestly realistic, he could only accomplish so much.
As an example, during his three and a half year ministry, he knew there's only so many he could reach, only so many people.
So why is he, what do you?
He modestly trained and entrusted others to do the preaching work.
And even said about them, as recorded at John 1412, that they would do works greater than his works.
They would reach a greater number of people, a greater area, a greater period of time.
Now, think about this, if the perfect Son of God feared to rely on his own strength, we should be scared to death to do that.
We do not rely on our own strength.
Never should we pridefully hold back from supplicating and petitioning Jehovah with strong outcries and tears.
May we modestly accept the help Jehovah provides through our brothers and sisters.
May we be modestly realistic of even what we expect of ourselves.
If we imitate Jesus' modesty, these four areas we've discussed, what a protection it will be.
It will protect us from many snares of the devil.